Aetna
Aetna P.O. Box 3013 Mad Stop U12W Blue Bell, PA 19422-0763
Dear
Thank you for applying for an Aetna Advantage Plans for Individuals, Families, and the Self-Employed. After carefully evaluating your application, we are unable to offer coverage to you at this time.
Coverage is not guaranteed under an Aetna Advantage Plan for Individuals, Families and the Self-Employed All applicants and/or their dependents are medically underwritten to determine each individual's risk category. We offer various risk categories based on each applicant's medical risk factors. After careful review of your application, we are unable to offer coverage and have declined the following applicant for the following reason(s):
- Seborrheic Keratosis, Seasonal Allergies, Giant Papillary Conjunctivitis, Restless Legs Syndrome, Headaches, Neck Pain and TMJ.
This determination is based on review of your medical conditions and associated treatment, which may include medications. This information may have come from your application, phone interview or medical records.
You may want to apply again in the future. If you do, we will review your medical history. Medical factors that we did not review this time may be considered. This means you might be offered a higher rate or be declined again.
Although not eligible for an Aetna Advantage Plan for Individuals, Families and the Self-Employed, you may be eligible for coverage under the Texas Health Insurance Risk Pool. Please contact the Texas Health Insurance Risk Pool toll free at 1-888-398-3927 for enrollment and eligibility information. The hearing and speech impaired may call toll free at TDD 1-800-735-2989. You can also access information regarding this plan at their website http://txhealthpool.org/.
You may also contact the Foundation for Health Coverage at 1-800-234-1317 or visit their website at www.coverageforall.org.
Your EFT account will not be debited.
You have the right to appeal our decision You may submit a request for an appeal in writing. Your appeal must be received within 180 days of the underwriting decision. Your request must include: